---
layout: post
title:  "Chemical equilibria from a statistical perspective"
date:   2024-06-29 09:46:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
The first pedagogical discussion I'd like to share here is content regarding the fundamental nature of chemistry - why chemical reactions occur in the way they do, why and how atoms and combinations thereof in molecules exist, and maybe more interestingly, why reactions don't occur in any other fashion among the infinitely large high-dimensional space of possibilities in which they can occur. This discussion is currently posted [here]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/thermodynamics_chemistry.pdf).

Although the topics here are shallow in the sense that high school curriculums barely scratches the surface of what is being investigated in the field right now, I think understanding the thermodynamic backdrop behind every chemical reaction is quite deep. In particular, I distinctly remember my freshman high school chemistry teacher saying something along the lines of "Chemistry is just probability, no memorizing!" and being very confused (he had a penchant for this teaching style) yet intrigued by what that sentence really meant. Over the last 6+ years, I've taken a few classes in statistical mechanics, carried out many chemical reactions in the lab guided by these principles, and simulated even more. This discussion represents my best attempt to combine those experiences together and give my take so far on what it means for chemistry to be "just probability". 

I believe that providing additional perspectives like this in introductory chemistry curriculums is extremely helpful for students. In particular, it's well known that different people learn most effectively in different ways; as a result, by providing a view of canonical curriculum topics through a non-canonical lens, we can better speak to more diverse modes of learning. It is my hope that through doing so, it becomes easier to speak to more people's personal interests and pique their personal journey to delving deeper into chemistry. At the same time, there's only so much time in a semester- or even year-long course and providing many outlooks on a single topic can be impractical, but I hope these blog posts can provide some sort of alternative to that. Finally, I would like to admit that although I frame this additional perspective as some sort of "looking under the hood" of introductory chemistry, there are also some assumptions that I make that are fundamentally important to this level of looking under the hood. Although I try to be explicit about when and why assumptions are made, there's no reason why the picture as I see it now is the whole picture. As with any other topic, I am sure there is still much to learn and much about this discussion that can be refined, I just don't know what I don't know as of this moment. One beautiful and selfish goal that I accomplished writing this chapter is really crystallizing my knowledge about a topic, filling out the edges by learning what I know I don't know, and leaving the rest (the "I don't know what I don't know" content) for future exploration.

Please reach out via email (listed on the Contact tab) with any comments, feedback, typos to note, or if you just want to say hi! Also, please fill out the form linked in the Contact tab if you'd like regular updates when I post, as I probably won't publicize future posts as much as this one. 